https://www.scaler.com/meetings/i/leadership-principles-interview-questions-at-top-tech-companies/archive
https://www.amazon.jobs/en-gb/principles
https://www.scarletink.com/interviewing-at-amazon-leadership-principles/

Deployment/build failures and observation
Focus on Urgent Important/Important Not Urgent 
Not on Urgent Not Important

The categories:

Data:

An approach you took when you had enough data available.
An approach you took when you had less data available.


A choice you made when there were multiple solutions available.
A time when you leveraged data to develop a solution.


Situation : We were suppose to migrate 2000+ Services to nodejs from vendor product, but only live apis which are in use we are suppose to migrate only that services. We asked operationals team to get production traffic data based on which we were suppose to perform migration.

For B2C segment we consumer didn't had any SIT environment due to which it was difficult of perform testing in SIT before promoting change to replica.

Task: We decided to listdown API with their consumer and discuss with consumer to perform testing and coordinate proactively to ensure testing in done

Action:
We had design walkthrough with all stake holders , We shot a mail to consumer that we will be deploying in SIT on xx date we are expecting signoff by this date.

Conclusion/Result:
It was a difficult task but following up with every consumer we were able get testing done for 80% of application for few application as they were not available in SIT to decided to move in to replica and 95% testing was covered in replica .For 5% cases what we did is in production we did configuration on LB based on sourceip we will route traffic to nodejs rest all will be served by vendor product.This ensure impact only on tester device and rest all is working fine.If testing goes well we plan in phase wise manner zone wise.

Decision: 

A time when you took a quick/instinctive decision and succeeded.

Situation:

A time when you took a risky decision and failed.


Innovation and hard work: 

Related questions:

A time when you devised a simple solution to a complex problem.


A time when you raised the bar.
A time when you solved a pain point.
A time when you influenced a change by asking questions.
A time when you invented something.
A time when you did more than what was required.
A time when you did something for customer satisfaction.

Deadline: 
Related questions:

A time when you missed a deadline
A time when you had to shift a deadline.


Mistakes: 
Related questions:

*A time when you made a mistake.


*A time you used the wrong approach when there was a better one.

Something you did you thought was right, but it failed.
A situation where you used external client/organizations plugin/adapter, which was faulty.


Motivation:
Related questions:

*A time when you took an initiative.
Best Practice to improve code quality

*A time when you lead a project.
Migration Project

*A time when you boosted the morale of the team.
log4j vulnerablility devops not able to resolve ELK issue

Issue for two version of filebeat running on server

Conflict: 
Related questions:

*A time when you handled a crisis.
Resource crisis team reduced from 10 developers to 4

*A time when you resolved a group conflict.
Resolved conflict between manager and team mate keshav


Challenging problems:

RPOS security loop hole
Production issue for getwidget API backend was taking time and it was failing
Migration from vendor to open source



Introduction:

I have grow in jio from taking ownersjip of a single task,feature,product,track B2C segment.
mentorship
best practices and systems to deliver quality deliverable
also act SME in team to solve any design/programing/production issue.

Introduction:
Roles:
1. Software Developer/DevOps  : 
2. Senior Software Developers :
3. Lead Software Engineer

Scenarios:
1. Working on business critical application like RPOS & TPA which is generating billions of revenue

2. Taking end to end ownership of business critical application/flows projects.

3. Team player working developers and devOps to encourage, motivate to complete the critical task in hand.

4. Wearing different hats an and when required devOps engineer,product manager,Leader, solution architect closely working with Ops team for production issues

5. Taking Ownership of business critical modules and high scale modules 
Products:
1. RPOS& tPA
2. Jio Fibre and OTT Integrations
3. Partner Integration Facebook/ Microsoft

Strength:Responsibility,Ownership,Problem Solving,Team Player,Never giving up character,Sportsmenship,Leadership,Peoples Person
Weakness: When Moving from Senior Developer to Lead Developer , Taking too many task -> Delegate work

Situation: Jio Fiber Launch and OTT Integeration in 2-3 weeks

Situation:Too many meetings to OTT partners for integration, worked as product manager to discuss integration with OTT partner  and devops engineer also to.

Situation: Asynchronous Netflix transaction handling and retries

Situation: Worked on secuirty of ZLA API and added few more checks to make it secure.

Situation:jiomart microservice scaling

Situation:Migration from vendor to opensource

Situtation XSLT transformation

Situation: Low level Design of .env create muultiple .env

DevOps Engineer
Dev Manager
Product Manager

RPOS Scaling issue

Tradeoff discussion:
Docker vs kubernetes
Maintaince of .env for each env



Situtaion: Resolved manager and team member conflict


VALUATION
Vesting
Exercise Period
Clif

how to manage senior people?
I tend to work them in humble way with every one and treat them with respect, create friendly environment, we are help each other to get best out of each other and I give them higher responsility

Situation were We failed -> 
MPOS new commerce microservice architecture production failure due to high traffic due to missing Non-Functional Requirement

Design document review steps?

Problem Statement
Functional Requirement
Use cases
Impacted System
Changes at each system
API Specs
Functional Mapping
Archieture Diagram
Flow Diagram

What points to be considered while reviewing document?



Software Developer - DevOps
Senior Software Developer 
Lead Engineer


Was part of Jio Mobility journey from 0-500million customer, and Jio Fibre from 0-5 million
