1. Base Salary in usually monthly or annual increments.
2. Bonuses (if applicable, signing, performance, profit sharing, etc.)
3. Stock options (if applicable).
4. Relocation (if applicable), 
5. Benifits


https://github.com/kuutsav/leetcode-compensation/blob/master/data/reports/report_2019_01_05_to_2022_01_18_tc.md
https://iutsav.dev/LeetComp/

Cost of Living vs Salary Comparison

1. Ask for more time to make an decision

2. Based on research done on data available on public forum Senior Developer/Lead Engineer/SDE 3 in mid cap companies 
are making between 40-60LPA for 6 years of experienced professionals and considering my current skill and value i will being to table 
i am expecting offer in higher side of this range and to add i am proactively working 





A
A
40+2

Appraisal cycle


employer contribution towards nps
PF deduction 
And PF contribution towards PF
Reimbursements that are supported
Internet reimbursement
LTI
Food Coupons


All tax components information


Quillbot
Senior Software Engineer- 67-70LPA
Principal Engineer - 75-80LPA


Ask for their numbers based on role they are offering and 

People
Company
Problems that we are solving
Technical Challenges
Create Impact
Create Business value


Thank for the offer currently, i am really excited about role at Quillbot and discussions i had with all the interview panels , it was really great experience tnterviewing with Quillbot and looking forward to working with Quillbot team and i really learnt many things during the interview and i am really connected to problem that Quillbot is trying to solve
i looking forward to create long term partnership with Quillbot


As per my market reaseach and value that i will bring on table with based on my technical experstise and experience at jio  and  working on business critical application generating billions of revenue i am expecting inrange 63-70 LPA as Total compensation and i would like to keep maximum part as fixed component(approx 55Lakh) and i am sure i will be creating multi fond value for the company and i am open for negotiation as well. and also i will be bring my passion for problem solving and software engineering. Once i join i want to focus more on work that i do instead of salary and ofcourse create a long term partnship and create multifold value at quillbot compared to what i will be paid.

This is my target 65-70LPA
Aroudn 55 Fixed
and i also i looking forward to create long term partnership next company


Quillbot will offer me 70LPA
Ankit
krishna
Sourabh Director

Thank you the offer it is good offer but based on my market 





1. Reason for high expectation:
1. Techincal Expersitise in HLD,LLD and problem solving
2. Expereince of working with business critical application and serving millions of user i.e 450 millions Jio Mobility user.seeing scale of 0 to 450 millions user base of jio
3. Experience of working with multiple OTT Applications,Facebook,Amazon,Netflix, Microsoft and Third Party aaplications like paytm,euronet,billdesk
4. Creating multiple fold revenue to company in long term compared what i am asking as pay
5. Getting Oppotunity at Jio to work as senior developer across multiple team/working centralized team which work all team across jio


e. I see myself working as higher side of  Senior engineer and promoting myself to next level in one year
a. I see it as a long term partnership with company where i want to see company and myself grow and create expotential business value to company
b. I will be giving my 100% once i join and to avoid thinking of salary and be happy to salary what is i am getting.
c. Market value
d. Retenion and long term at one company and by being at one company for long period of team i can potentially create exponential Business value for company


2. Counter Offer Discussion:
a. My expectation was same for them as well
b. Prososed verbal offer of around 60LPA (52 LPA Fixed+ 2 Joining bonus+ 6 Lakh Perfomance Bonus) which is in negotiation phase
c. Proposed : 50+5+3
d. In hand : 52LPA : 40+2+4+6
c. I am expecting 70LPA and This was always been my expectation ,some are able to give good offers but still they meet my expectations

3. Final Negotatiton
a. Ok this look fine to me and i am still considering your offer but i would be very much happy if you meet my expectation / increase 10% above given numbers

b. Diefinetly i am conserding this offer it looks good to me but before rolling out final offer request you to have look at this and work on last numbers that we discussed that will be great.

4. Questions

High Expectation:
I am expecting 70-80 but that is negotiatible i would like to know what you are offering

Expectations:
I am expecting 70LPA

Serving Notice Period:Yes

Last Working Day:
8th Feb

Why still searching?
Looking for better oppourtunities in term of role,work, culture and impact that i will be making


5. Role

Right working as Team Lead as well as Lead Software Engineer where i act as Subject MAtter Expert to any question related to our own platorm and for business critical production issue as well.

Currently i am envolved in HLD and LLD discussion and collabartion with solution architects for designing and few case even i have designed end to end solutions for business and worked as lead taking ownership of complete product leading.

Taking End to End owership of OTT Features and Jio Fibre as Product

1. HLD, LLD and Code, Performance Optimzation of Application
11. Work on critical feature
2. Solutioning of new requirements
3. Ownership of business critical projects serving millions of requests per day and 300000 lakh recharges per day generateing 5-10crores of revenue everyday
4. Owneship of business critical application and troblushoting prod issues
5. Mentoring and guiding developer,creating growth path for junior developers,Doing code review and setting best practices for platform
6. Collabartion with product and business team to understand requirement
7. Lead without the title-> worked closely with VP and work as alternate to VP incase of his absence and also lead daily scrum call 
8. Lead Team of 4 developers for B2C , assigning work to developer,take end to end ownership of complete B2C segement project
9. Interviewing at other good companies as where they are offering roles as Lead Software Engineer/SDE 3 and Tech Lead also in some midcap/small companies
10. I have gone through requiremnet given in for senior software engineer and i think i will able to deliver as senior software engineer and also same kind of skills were assessed during interview also

Working 

From Senior Software Developer -> Principal Software Developer

Proposed offer -> 50+5+3

5. Benefits
a. Insurance?
b. Leave?
c. Handset Rebursiment?
d. Relocation Bonus?
e. Work Station rebursment
f. Education Allowance



Private Company RSU/ESOP:
Public
Acquistion
Buy back
Exercise period? 

https://www.instahyre.com/job-170281-software-development-engineer-at-quillbot-work-from-home/?
https://www.instahyre.com/job-131162-senior-software-development-engineer-at-quillbot-work-from-home/
https://quillbot.com/careers/senior-sde-platform


Quillbot:



Two Option i see to make this work:

1. How to liqquidate RSUs?

2. I would be happier if can you consider me for SDE3 role at quillbot and as i mentioned number of reason in last discussion for considering me as SDE 3 and also there are other companies good who are offering me lead software engineer and senior software engineer and also tech lead role with decent compensation but as i am more aligned towards quillbot so i would like to know if it possible for you consider me for higher role and also meet my expectation.

I would request you rediscuss these points with krishna sir and sourabh sir then we can discuss.
Main point is i want company who has trust in myskills that i can cater to senior role and i should be felt that you have trust in me and i happy to compensation and role so that i can give my 100% and i will be over delivering on that also.

I would love to hear feedback from krishna and sourabh on this i want their trust that 

This is best case scenario

3. I am already holding an offer if you can consider that work toward offer something around that then also we can discuss and see how thing can go.

MiniMum Overall is 50 LPA:

56-60LPA  is yes
60LPA is yes

How to liqquidate RSUs? IPO / Acquistion

Joining Bonus?? and Variable??
Increment -> 

internet bill

March to March

NPS -> NPS/Employer NPS 
Gratuity -> Gratuity - deduceted from exsiting
LTA -> 6-7lakh
Sodexo Coupon/Paytm -> 
Is office setup allowance tax free?  -> 
Gifting ->
what are tax deductions avaialable
Education Rebursement -> 

Hiring Manager/Role and Responsibility

SDE3/ Senior Software Engineer
match existing offer?
Joining Bonus??


PF->?
How HRA works for Remote job?
What happens to RSU after leaving the company?



Leadership and character/Problem solving
Creating multiple fold revenue to company in long term compared what i am asking as pay
Ownership of business critical projects generating billions of revenues


48.5

10% above existing offer
47+2+8
45.5+3+8LPA




4000000
learn 
EPF-7000 3800*2
700000-> wife,parent
OPT -> 10000
Unlimited leaves
Tech kit - 4lakh
Valuation:? 300M
ESOP - 16000 * 2 dollars ->  
Strike Price:0.25-0.5

1 billions
2024-2025 - 3 years IPO/Acquision
Buy back or 
0.5 dollar - 
4 years - 
Joining Bonus - 
Variable Pay - 





Market Research

Expeince of working on business critical setup generating billions of revenue

Long term partnership with company which will provide multifold value to company.not to think about salary after joining.

Good bond with ashutosh


Market Research value is 55-60 as per by experince
Current offers are around 50 LPA
Cash component 46LPA
More cash component